feat(curriculum): create javascript events quiz (#56575)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/25-front-end-development/quiz-javascript-events/66edd0ac31fea6e678eb925a.md

#### --text--

Which method is used to listen to events in JavaScript?

#### --distractors--

`.getElementById()`

---

`.createElement()`

---

`.innerHTML`

#### --answer--

`.addEventListener()`

### --question--

#### --text--

> Following code is an example of?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What does this code demonstrate?
```

```js
const parentList = document.getElementById('parent-list');

parentList.addEventListener('click', function(event) {
  if (event.target && event.target.nodeName === 'LI') {
    console.log('List item clicked:', event.target.textContent);
  }
});
```

#### --distractors--

DOM Manipulation

---

Event Bubbling

---

Callback Function

#### --answer--

Event Delegation

### --question--

#### --text--

What is the term for a function that runs in response to an event?

#### --distractors--

Middleware function

---

Promise function

---

Asynchronous function

#### --answer--

Callback function

### --question--

#### --text--

> What does the event.target property return?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What does the `event.target` property return?
```

#### --distractors--

The parent of the event object

---

The HTML document

---

The window object

#### --answer--

The element that triggered the event

### --question--

#### --text--

> How do you correctly pass a parameter to an event handler function in JavaScript?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
How do you correctly pass an argument to an event handler function in JavaScript?
```
Arguments are passed to function, parameters are in function definition.

#### --distractors--

`addEventListener('click', myFunction())`

---

> `addEventListener('click', myFunction.parameter)`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`addEventListener('click', myFunction.argument)`
```

---

> `addEventListener('click', parameter => myFunction(parameter))`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`addEventListener('click', argument => myFunction(argument))`
```

#### --answer--

> `addEventListener('click', () => myFunction(parameter))`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`addEventListener('click', () => myFunction(argument))`
```

### --question--

#### --text--

> What is the best way to capture an input event across all types of input fields?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Which event type captures an input event across all types of input fields?
```

#### --distractors--

> Using `keyup`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`keyup`
```

---

> Using `keypress`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`keypress`
```

---

> Using `keydown`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`keydown`
```

#### --answer--

> Using `input` event

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`input`
```

### --question--

#### --text--

> What is the main advantage of using addEventListener() over inline event handlers?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What is the main advantage of using `addEventListener()` over inline event handlers?
```

#### --distractors--

It supports synchronous handling

---

It reduces CSS file size

---

It can't be removed once added

#### --answer--

It allows multiple event listeners to be attached to a single element

### --question--

#### --text--

What is the purpose of the `event.preventDefault()` method?

#### --distractors--

To stop the event from propagating to other listeners

---

To set a default value to the event

---

To remove the event handler

#### --answer--

To prevent the default action associated with an event from being executed

### --question--

#### --text--

> What does the term "event propagation" mean?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What does the term "event propagation" refer to?
```

#### --distractors--

Events can only be handled by inline handlers

---

Events are triggered by CSS changes

---

Events are copied to a new window

#### --answer--

> The way an event travels through the DOM in phases (capturing, target, and bubbling)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Events travel through the DOM in phases
```

### --question--

#### --text--

What event handler would you use to detect a right-click on an element?

#### --distractors--

`click`

---

`hover`

---

`mousedown`

#### --answer--

`contextmenu`

### --question--

#### --text--

Which of the following is an example of an inline event handler?

#### --distractors--

`<script>myButton.addEventListener('click', myFunction);</script>`

---

`<button id="myButton"></button>`

---

`<button class="myButton">Click me</button>`

#### --answer--

`<button onclick="myFunction()">Click me</button>`

### --question--

#### --text--

Which of the following is a common use case for event delegation?

#### --distractors--

Preventing default browser behaviors

---

Canceling event propagation

---

Creating custom events

#### --answer--

Handling click events on dynamically created elements

### --question--

#### --text--

> What is meant by "default action" of an event in JavaScript?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What is meant by the "default action" of an event in JavaScript?
```

#### --distractors--

The event's propagation is stopped automatically

---

An external stylesheet is applied

---

The event listener is called twice

#### --answer--

The browser's predefined behavior that occurs after an event is triggered

### --question--

#### --text--

> Why is the once option in addEventListener() useful?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Why is the once option in `addEventListener()` useful?
```

It makes the event listener asynchronous

---

It allows capturing to be the default phase

---

It stops the event from bubbling up

#### --answer--

It ensures that the event listener is removed after being triggered once

### --question--

#### --text--

What property refers to the HTML element to which the event handler is attached?

#### --distractors--

`event.caller`

---

`event.this`

---

`event.parent`

#### --answer--

`event.currentTarget`

### --question--

#### --text--

How does the concept of event delegation improve performance?

#### --distractors--

It creates separate listeners for each child

---

It prevents child elements from triggering events

---

It limits event propagation to the capturing phase

#### --answer--

It reduces the number of event listeners by using a single listener on a parent element

### --question--

#### --text--

Why is it important to remove event listeners when they are no longer needed?

#### --distractors--

It makes the page load slower

---

It prevents CSS styles from being applied

---

It breaks JavaScript execution

#### --answer--

It improves performance and reduces memory leaks

### --question--

#### --text--

> What does `DOMContentLoaded` event indicate?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What does the `DOMContentLoaded` event indicate?
```

#### --text--

Which method is used to listen to events in JavaScript?

#### --distractors--

`.getElementById()`

---

`.createElement()`

---

`.innerHTML`

#### --answer--

> `.addEventListener()`
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`.addEventListener()`
```

you have accidentally added an extra line here

### --question--

#### --text--

> Following code is an example of?
> ```js
> const parentList = document.getElementById('parent-list');
> 
> parentList.addEventListener('click', function(event) {
>   if (event.target && event.target.nodeName === 'LI') {
>     console.log('List item clicked:', event.target.textContent);
>   }
> });
> ```

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
Following code is an example of?

```js
const parentList = document.getElementById('parent-list');

parentList.addEventListener('click', function(event) {
  if (event.target && event.target.nodeName === 'LI') {
    console.log('List item clicked:', event.target.textContent);
  }
});
```
````

code fences requires to be surrounded by empty lines

#### --distractors--

DOM Manipulation

---

Event Bubbling

---

Callback Function

#### --answer--

Event Delegation

### --question--

#### --text--

What is the term for a function that runs in response to an event?

#### --distractors--

Middleware function

---

Promise function

---

Asynchronous function

#### --answer--

> Callback function
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Callback function
```

### --question--

#### --text--

What does the event.target property return?

#### --distractors--

The parent of the event object

---

The HTML document

---

The window object

#### --answer--

> The element that triggered the event
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The element that triggered the event
```

### --question--

#### --text--

How do you correctly pass a parameter to an event handler function in JavaScript?

#### --distractors--

`addEventListener('click', myFunction())`

---

`addEventListener('click', myFunction.parameter)`

---

`addEventListener('click', parameter => myFunction(parameter))`

#### --answer--

`addEventListener('click', () => myFunction(parameter))`

> 

Author: sure, working on these changes!
